so the first question that
gamer's ask me is do I have a problem am
I actually addicted to video games and
that's actually the best question to
start off with how do you know whether
your gaming is just a normal part of
your life it's a way of having fun it's
a form of recreation or is it a problem
is it actually an addiction and it kind
of makes sense I mean it's a tricky
question because gaming actually offers
us a lot of positive things in life if
we think about it gaming serves as a
form of recreation it's something that
you do with your friends it serves as a
way to de-stress and actually cope with
problems it serves as a way to connect
with other human beings and form
relationships and so it's a completely
reasonable question to ask you know is
the gaming that I do like when I play
let's say a whole weekend of World of
Warcraft after a week of finals is that
a problem when I game for 12 hours a day
on Saturday and Sunday after studying my
ass off for the semester is that a
problem and it's it's a great question
and I think at the end of the day the
answer is relatively simple if it's
causing a problem it is a problem in
psychiatry we we have one very simple
line that if you cross that line we say
that you've got an illness and that line
is simply does it impair your function
does it actually get in the way of
something that you want to do so if we
take a look at for example distressing
we see that you know if I have a long
day and I go home and I play video games
that's kind of a healthy coping
mechanism but let's say that I have a
job that's super stressful and then I go
home and I play games for hours to kind
of decompress from that job and the next
day I go to the job and it's super
stressful and I come home and I
decompress and that goes on for days and
weeks and months that's a problem if
you're not changing your life in any way
if the gaming is getting in the way of
you talking to your boss about why your
job is a problem if your gaming is
in the way of you trying to find another
job that's not so stressful then I'd say
it is a problem if you're gaming it's
fine to use gaming is a coping mechanism
in a way to de-stress from your day but
if you're not actually dealing with the
sources of your stress if you're not
actually improving things and you're
kind of ignoring a problem or letting a
problem fester then I think gaming is a
problem so just to sum up you know if
you guys are asking yourself the
question am i addicted to video games I
would ask you is your gaming getting in
the way of things that you want to do is
your gaming getting in the way of your
academic performance are you not doing
as well in school as you should be
because you're playing video games is it
getting in the way of your professional
success are you not getting promoted or
are you not looking for a better job
are you not switching fields are you not
growing in a professional capacity
because you spend so much time gaming is
gaming interfering with your physical
health are you gaining too much weight
should you be losing weight is gaming
getting in the way of your sleep or do
you are you not able to run a mile
comfortably if gaming is impairing if
you're spending so much time gaming that
you're not actually taking care of
yourself physically that's a problem
does gaming create problems in your
relationships are you not able to find a
romantic partner like a girlfriend or
something like that because you spend so
much time gaming is gaming stressing
creating stress between let's say you
and your parents they think you spend
too much time gaming you think you spend
just the right amount of time Gaming is
there some problem that's happening in
your relationship because of your gaming
if the answer to any of those questions
is yes then I think your gaming is a
problem the most subtle problem that a
lot of gamers actually end up with is
actually that gaming prevents their
creative pursuits so I've met a lot of
gamers who are really smart and I'm sure
you guys all all of you have either a
great idea for a video game or a great
idea for a startup or you have some sort
of great idea for a novel that you want
right or you have this sci-fi TV show
that you think would be absolutely
awesome but you never actually worked
towards it you never actually sit down
and start to write the opening scene of
your TV show because you spend so much
time gaming and I think that that's
actually the most dangerous and
insidious part of a video game addiction
is that it actually prevents you from
becoming the person that you actually
want to be in this world sure the game
is fun and you enjoy playing it but five
years down the road are you gonna be
happy with where you are or would you
have rather spent some of that time
doing something else and if the answer
to that question is yes I would rather
have spent my time doing something else
then you've got a problem and that's
what I'm here to help you with